  The 80x86 CPU uses "Segment:Offset" to point to physical memory addresses. Both the segment and offset are 16-bit values. The physical address is calculated as "Segment * 16 + Offset". Users don't need to understand how to calculate the physical address, but the game might use the DS, ES, or CS registers to point to the area storing character attributes. Therefore, before searching, you must set the `SEG` to point to the DS, ES, or CS register. If you don't know which segment the game data resides in, set the `SEG` to 0. This enables linear address mode, allowing you to search the entire memory range. However, this significantly increases the search scope, so using the "Segment:Offset" method is recommended whenever possible. Command examples:
    SEG ES      # Set the segment address to follow the ES register
    SEG 0x9117  # Set the segment address to the hexadecimal value 0x9117
    SEG 0       # Use linear addressing, ignoring segment registers
Setting the `SEG` value to follow the DS, ES, or CS registers carries risks because the game process might change the values of these registers. It's possible that during the search phase they point to the correct address and allow you to find the correct offset. However, as the game continues execution, they might point elsewhere, rendering the offset address you found earlier useless. Therefore, it is recommended to set the `SEG` value by referring to the top of the DEBUG screen, which displays the values of the DS and ES registers (in hexadecimal). Use these values as a reference to set the correct segment address using the `SEG` command. If the game enters protected mode, the `SEG` value *must* be set to 0. Setting it to any other value will be ineffective. The search length depends on the memory size set in the Dosbox-X configuration file. If you truly have no concept of registers and are completely unsure whether to use DS, ES, or CS, you can simply set the `SEG` value to 0. This will greatly increase the search length, but the benefit is that you will almost certainly find your target (unless the game uses encoding methods to store character attributes, which is beyond this program's capability to solve).