As happy as I am with doing this project, there are some
major issues I wish to resolve:

1. core=dynamic is REQUIRED to run Windows 95/98/ME reliably.
   it seems to be the ONLY core capable of running them at all.
   running under other cores causes random erratic crashes.

   how to fix? I'm still convinced it has to do with DOSBox's
   codebase allowing the CPU cores to call memread which in turn
   can take the page fault codepath if the page is not present,
   AT ANY TIME, and it may have something to do with parts of
   the CPU core that aren't prepared to deal with interruption
   like that.

   to put it another way, I think the normal, simple, and full
   cores have issues with page fault emulation that need to be
   resolved.

2. PAGING_NewPageFault() recursion issue.

   The PF queue builds up over time in Windows 9x/ME and I think
   it has to do with preemption involving the page fault exception.
   What that means is that in Win9x/ME a page fault doesn't
   necessarily return to the fault location. It could process the
   pagefault instead but then task switch to another process.
   It could do that in a order that is different from the order
   that page faults occurred in. Because of the way that the
   "page fault core" is written, the case to exit out and drain
   the PF queue never happens. Worst case scenario, the PF queue
   runs out and DOSBox crashes.

   I'm also willing to assume the possibility that Windows 9x/ME
   might eventually return to the task that page faulted, but with
   a different segment value (if 16-bit, probably less likely for
   32-bit).

3. Possible recursion issues with the dynamic core.

   What does the dynamic core generator do about the recursive
   page fault case when it does the function calls to do so, and
   the deeper function calls in turn call more code, which in
   turn could cause blocks to flush and possibly invalidate
   the dynamically generated code that the stack still refers
   to?

4. Code organization in general.

   The code is a mess. This won't be instant, but over time, the
   code needs to be properly organized to ensure that maintaining
   it will not turn into a nightmare. There are some important
   organizational changes I wish to make to the code that require
   it to be cleaned up, to better support:

   - run-time configurable busses (changing resources via PCI
     configuration space)
   - PCI to ISA bridge emulation
   - PCI IRQ routing emulation
   - ISA devices that can change I/O resources (such as PnP).
     The current DOSBox codebase assumes IO ports never change.
   - General i440FX chipset emulation
   - multiple PCI video cards (and possibly ISA alongside it)
   - the option for no video card whatsoever

5. Rewrite of the DOSBox debugger.

   It sucks. Well, it's OK at pointing out where the code is,
   and it's fine at single-stepping and basic breakpoints, but
   the way it's implemented sucks. For one... why use the
   terminal? If the other add-on GUIs of DOSBox show anything
   the debugger could be implemented as a subroutine of DOSBox
   that changes the screen over, or perhaps even overlay on
   top of the existing screen with no mode change whatsoever.

   I would also like to see added:
     - more intuitive register examination code
     - commands to dump floating point registers
     - breakpoint on I/O port

6. DOSBox's heavy reliance on scheduling events using the PIC timer,
   and PIC timer inaccuracies in general.

   I noticed that if you request a time value from the PIC core
   as a float, there is a slight discontinuity that can happen that
   can affect some games or OSes timing.

   I also noticed that some parts of the PIC emulation are off
   timing-wise, such as the PC speaker when used as a timer.

   To help improve device timing and emulation accuracy, a parallel
   framework of clocks has been added. By these clocks, events can
   be scheduled in clock ticks rather than floating point delays.
   The clock ticks also represent time very accurately in terms of
   the emulated bus's clock.

   Built-in default clocks:
    - ISA 14MHz OSC clock
    - ISA 8.33MHz bus clock (user-changeable to other frequencies
      such as 4.77MHz when emulating an XT)
    - PCI 33.333MHz bus clock (if PCI emulation is enabled, and
      user changeable to other less common frequencies like 30MHz
      and 25MHz)

   It is hoped that eventually all code is transitioned to using
   these clock delays and timeouts and the PIC_AddEvent() type
   functions are deprecated and removed. Some parts like VGA
   emulation could definitely benefit from a clock-domain type
   time emulation by maintaining their own clock domain representing
   the pixel clock, and then emulating HSYNC and VSYNC from that.
   The current VGA emulation is accurate enough, but has inaccuracies
   that cause problems for DOS programs that do raster VGA trickery.

