Impact Studio - Legends

BUG: Demo timing runs at half speed, eventually malfunctions and gets
     stuck in the double-lens section of the demo.

If you run the demo and the bouncing ball and rotozoomer sections run
slowly, then you are seeing the bug in effect and you should consider
exiting out because the demo will glitch at the lens section and
never progress past it.

 - I remember this bug first showing up in DOSBox 0.74, previous
   versions of DOSBox (0.72) ran the demo perfectly fine, which is
   how I was able to do the demoscene capture for the demoscene
   collection DVD on scene.org. So what did previous versions of
   DOSBox do right that DOSBox 0.74 (and therefore DOSBox-X) does
   wrong?

UPDATE: 2014/01/21: It turns out the PIT emulation IS the problem.
        But it's not PIT 0 that's the issue (that's used by the demo
        to run the music!). It's PIT 2. Yes... the one normally used
        to drive the PC speaker. Apparently what the demo coders did
        is they wrote their code to sync both to VGA retrace AND
        use the PIT 2 timer in "interrupt on terminal count" mode
        with a subroutine that sets the counter to 0x0000, then
        spins in a loop until the counter reaches some interval value
        it uses to wait the proper amount of time. For whatever
        reason, when DOSBox emulates the counter latch value with
        PIT 2 in mode 0, the value counts down too slow (or at least
        too slow for the demo to keep time).

So to clarify what the demo is doing with your PIT timer chip:
 - PIT 0 is set to 50Hz, and used to drive the music
 - PIT 2 is programmed to mode 0 (interrupt on terminal count)
   and the demo uses it as a software delay loop to keep time
   by loading it with 0x0000 then spinning in a loop until the
   counter reaches a specific value.

To run the demo correctly (more or less), set the cycles count to
somewhere between 10000 and 20000, and add this line to your
dosbox.conf:

pit hack=pc_speaker_as_timer

This PIT hack forces the demo to run at a normal speed by speeding
up the rate that PIT 2 counts down by. The multiplier value is
carefully chosen: 2x does not help much unless the cycles count
is at least 60000, while values above 4 overdo it and parts of the
demo will suddenly and spontaneously run the animations really fast
at times.

BUG: 3D rotating dots overdraw, failure to clear the screen

The details are already mentioned in the VGA emulation errors file.
However I want to note what DOSBox's debug messages also reveal
about this part of the demo:

For whatever reason, the demo is not only rendering dots, but doing
so with alternate palette colors, and when it draws a new frame,
it masks off 2 bits of the DAC output corresponding to the "bitplane"
or whatever that it's going to draw, which is why when DOSBox fails
to emulate it properly there is not only overdraw but a lot of
flickering as well.

